We've talked about the history and we've talked about the community.
Now,
let's get hands on.
This is the Openrack version 3 or ORV 3.
It's the physical foundation of the modern AI driven data centre.
And to understand why it's built this way,
you have to understand the architecture of power.
In a traditional nineteen-inch rack,
every server had its own power supply.
It was plugged into a giant power strip
known as a PDU.
Early open racks solved this cable mess by replacing the power strips with
a centralised twelve-fold boss bar that was built right into the frame.
This was fine for standard cloud surfers pulling 10 to 15 kilowatts.
But today's IA clusters demand 100 kilowatts or more per rack.
If you try to push that much power at 12 volts,
your current goes through the roof.
It goes way beyond simple power loss.
Pushing that much current through a 12 volt bus bar would be catastrophic.
It would melt the copper,
sparks would fly
and result in a complete system failure.
So
the rack and power project group changed the standard.
ORV3 utilises a 48 volt DC buzz bar.
By stepping up the voltage,
we reduce the heat loss by 16 times.
That means more power actually reaches the silicon
instead of burning up in the infrastructure.
We also totally reimagined power delivery.
In a traditional setup,
every single server has its own redundant power supply,
which usually runs at a low,
inefficient utilisation rate.
ORV3 pulls that workload.
It replaces dozens of individual power supplies with a
single centralised power shelf loaded with modular rectifiers.
By consolidating the AC to DC conversion for the entire wreck,
we drive the utilisation rate up
and the power losses down.
This centralised approach simplifies deployment.
IT gear slides in and connects to the power spine without any manual wiring.
No thick power cords blocking your exhaust air flow.
Eliminating server PSUs frees up motherboard space,
enabling denser compute
and improved system airflow.
But delivering that much power creates two secondary challenges,
extreme weight and extreme heat.
The physical frame of the ORV3 rack has been reinforced
to handle the massive weight of modern GPU chassis.
More importantly,
the ORV 3 frame futureproofs your data centre for the next generation of heat.
It is designed to natively integrate liquid
cooling manifolds right into the direct architecture.
It introduces the Open Compute
Universal Quick Disconnect Standard or UQD for short.
ORV3 allows serving gear to be slid directly into the wreck,
safely and seamlessly connecting its liquid cooling circuits without any drips.
We solved the power delivery bottleneck,
but extracting that heat is a whole different beast.
Let's look at how we keep these wrecks from actually melting down.